okay
welcome to Quian in web browsers
bi-weekly call for 14th of July 2020
this week on our agenda quick update
about pinging services quick update on
subdomain gateways performance
improvements for uploading web UI and
general over HTTP client IP FS desktop
update extravaganza and more that was me
reading over agenda I thought I tried
that so yeah the first item is spinning
services feel free to add your agenda
items while I go over this one let me
quickly share my screen background here
is that we are working on a generic
pinning service API that pinning service
providers can implement and then clients
can easily switch between providers
without the like while using the same
user interface or the same client so now
we have this pinning service API trapped
it's a very simple API the pin object
lifecycle is just creating modifying and
removing pins we've tackled problems
related to pinning service fetching new
data from peers that are behind nuts and
in other restrictive network topologies
by adding closed provider hints to the
response on our client has an
information that hey this is a multi
other of pinning service you should
connect to it and that way pinning
service is able to find the content
faster it does not need to wait for the
HT
and we've removed a bunch of fields and
replaced them with a meta dictionary
where vendors can add their own
parameters which are about the specific
to the functionality so it's open-ended
spec every pinning service implements
the minimum that's in this document
however there are free to add as much as
they want to the meta parameter so the
list is listing pin objects is pretty
simple
by default we only return pinned objects
I believe you can filter by status or
you can pass multiple see IDs and you
will get pin status only for that series
pagination is built-in and we have some
hard limits for the number of results
that are returned
it's about 1k of results user can add
multiple pins in a single request and
then I can get status of specific single
object and then can modify that pin
object add additional metadata or change
providers or even see ID that might be
useful in our case for web UI
integration where in case we implement
pinning policies the root of amethyst
would be a pin that is constantly
modified on every NFS change and finally
when the pin is no longer desired you
can remove it that's it that's entire
API so I posted links to this working
progress spec in the notes but I believe
by the time people watch this video it
will be more or less finalized we
already don't expect too many liquor
groundbreaking changes mostly we may
specify additional limits for value
ranges or we may move something like
optional fields to be promoted to be
mandatory but nothing too extreme so we
encourage people to visit visit this
repo after you familiarize yourself with
this spec in an existing shape and feel
that something's missing or something is
not clear or feel free to open issue or
even open a request making direct change
propose direct changes to this back we
the source of truth is this Yunel file
here it's an open API format which has a
very simple docks in the beginning and
then it's just an API spec I believe
that's it for my part with the API and
we hope to effectively finalize the spec
this week and by that we mean we will
give a green light to cleaning services
to start implementing it and of course
we will probably gather feedback in the
next few weeks when people start
implementing the API and like hidden
complexity surfaces will probably a
continued work in that repo so if you
are pinning service provider or
are interested in in this space you may
want to watch this repo that's it for
pinning services a quickly stop sharing
my screen in case there are any
questions concerns something I've missed
spec looks really good it's a really
difference between two weeks ago and
right now looks very professional I like
it's a good job Thank You Jessica I'm
sorry good go ahead
no I was literally just saying I want to
see your cat oh thank you Oh moly had
some concerns about the signup process
or connecting the pending service API I
try to explain how that came into being
but I'm not sure I had much success in
convincing that was a good idea so I was
wondering yeah
just going to bring it up I guess yeah
so I think we will des cope that from
this lack finalization process and
effectively what we want to finalize is
the depart for related to authorization
it's already in the spec which is that
authorization beaver token and we start
MVP with assumption that there will be
this copying step however I'd like to
continue thinking about this if it's
something we if we like in the next week
or two come up with something fairly
easy that pinning services can implement
without too much burden and something
that works we've both wet UI in web
browser as well as inside of electron
browser in aquifers desktop then we may
add it as additional option but I don't
think we will have bandwidth for
anything more than just like small
porcelain change on top of existing
thing yeah so I think the implementation
should be fairly
humans that we sort of not do anything
however I see most concerned still was
that flow itself was not easier than
copying pasting tokens which i think is
a different issue I think like my plan
is to leverage the fact that more
pinning services will look at this back
after we call it finalized and we could
have an open PR which adds that one
endpoint you describe with clear like
pros for adding this and if we got like
enough thumbs up from pinning services
that this is actually something that
makes their job easier for like managing
permissions we may be successful with
darts but I will leave the decision on
this to pinning service community at
this point because they will be the ones
who implement it and I don't want to
balloon the scope too much if they
aren't good okay
apart from that there's a separate
discussion in the web UI repo regarding
stats I filled it today in the mock-ups
of kibou I think screen we had column
for transfer and storage per pinging
service right now in the pinning service
API we don't have any endpoint for
fetching stats like usage stats and I
just proposed to the scope that from MVP
I just mentioned it here in case someone
feels strongly about it but I don't feel
it's that useful to users especially
like given in different pinning services
may have different billing strategies so
we may not come up with the proper way
of visualizing the showing visual way of
utilizing different services especially
they have different pricing strategies
they may have
one may have billing per storage another
for transfer or something else so I
would propose I propose the scoping that
from MVP so if anyone has any stronger
opinions about that
there's issue which I'll link later yeah
I think we we just need to make sure
that we run that past the folks who
generated those original Lara's market
for additional context I'm meeting one
today for like a final design review of
the API spec and we'll bring that up as
well awesome yeah i mean i think i think
really within within the UI mock-ups
that was just to that was just to give
us an affordance for columns in that
space i don't you know i don't feel like
it's any wasted work but i would be very
interested in keeping tabs on that i
think there's going to be some sort of
statistical information on a per pinning
service provider that will be useful to
people i just don't think we know what
that is yet yeah absolutely i think it's
better to hide those columns we can
always bring them back later all right
a quick update on subdomain gateways in
case someone was missing that topic so
interesting peers got merged this week
last week one is support for Edie 2f 19
the p2p keys in subdomains that's good
news because we are planning to switch
to those inline keys in next releases of
go ifs and this enables ask to use them
in subdomains which means IP NS websites
would have a proper and valid TLS cert
on public gateways and we do that by
defaulting all subdomains for all little
piggys to base 36 instead of 32 that by
some bias
as enough space to fit in under dns
limit of 63 characters and the second PR
is oh and in case CID is too long even
in base 36 the subdomain will return an
error for now effectively if you use
like longer hash functions like sha-512
that may be the case but you are still
able to load that content from a path
based gateway which is under local host
IP or ipfs that I oh you just don't you
are not able to use long C IDs for use
cases like websites where you need per
CID origin isolation yeah so that's on
on the keys in subdomains and the second
PR is extended support for reverse proxy
headers there are two popular headers
one is X forwarded part which we already
supported that enabled reverse proxies
public subdomain gateways to redirect to
HTTPS out of the box and now we support
X forwarded host header which enables
subdomain gateways to redirect a
different host names and that's useful
if someone has already has a purpose
gateway which was using be used mostly
for websites and now wants to add
original selection to to users give them
a clear migration path just set up that
header on the reverse proxy and go Akif
s will automatically return redirect to
a new to the new host name and to the
sub domain at that host name and that's
it on some domain gateways any questions
concerns cool
that's a kitty all right rocky we want
to talk about yeah upload improvements
ah yes I guess I should have named it
differently so I do we did had a meeting
last week with the current limitations
folks about implementation strategies we
had to decide between doing fully
browser for native implementation versus
Samuel upset we decided to do somewhat
native and maybe in the future we will
reconsider that decision there's the
pull request to J's ipfs that implements
based on that influenza didn't seen its
end up being fairly big because some of
the complexities in the idea Jess ipfs
api's it's currently waiting on a review
there is a little chance that some
changes would have to be made for the
two which is maybe will switch to the
fetch blob implementation versus Lobby
implementations that I included in the
pull request problems are a slope has
bugs so that would mean we would have to
fix some of those I said I think it will
be ready once we get a review and once
that happens then I'll update the pull
request that is currently Sarah for a
web UI which use my fork library and it
will just replace you Jess I give us and
I think one set is also Duns and we'll
have it that's it seems that we will
have everything in place and we'll be
waiting for pinning services to
implement API that's it goodness
yeah I think that's that that's a valid
wrote for for landing this I know
actually I recalled one thing that I
should have captured so I do have a
problem with my web UI pull request said
I was not exactly sure how to so that is
it seems that I think there used to be
some things that track the progress of
upload and it rendered it but so there
are some actions immediate by the
uploading saying my implementation
actually does a progress handling and
amid those actions but there's nothing
listening to those actions except to
when it's done which is fairly bad when
you have multiple gigs of files it takes
quite a bit I think 1440 14 seconds I
was a time so having no visual feedback
for 14 seconds feels like things are
broken all he mentions are there were
some things that removed it and then I
guess it got lost and some of these
things were left some I'm not too
familiar with the code which I'm not
exactly sure where to wire sinks where
so any help there would be helpful my
laptop was also talking and so I
actually did did upload feedback a
couple of weeks ago that you have a
drop-down that appears from the bottom
it shows the progress while updating the
files and is listening to the ladies
shake it's it's waiting on the file
section a file where did you post it
that because I don't say dinner so when
you upload something to the files page
it appears and it's called file upload
file let me just shake maybe let's do
dog sign because it would be easier so I
can actually go and yeah
send you the link on github for the for
the code and you can check it out over
there okay thank you that will be very
helpful if you have any issues you can
also binghams like I'll help you out
with any questions you have about the
codebase you're welcome to do it that
will also help you help you go faster
and also improve my knowledge on the
codebase actually if you'll have a time
and don't mind looking at the present
that would be helpful to to get a sense
whether it looks okay or not and maybe
that's where we can discuss so it'd be
just so it's right context
I'll ask questions in there to you thank
you sounds we not only will have fast
uploads but we also know that it's
happening yeah I hope it's not bad
remember I told you that redux bundler
was bad and I couldn't actually see the
update so I I hope it's not the case
anymore with this change yes yeah I hope
it's the way it is right now only
because it never worked it was just you
and then 100% because it's like
bufferton ty I think no one bother with
proper progress until now that you
rightly fix it
[Music]
alright i PFS desktop update problems so
just just to keep everyone on the same
page
we had a couple of issues disappearing
last week's about problems on a PFS
desktop upload sorry a plate and I think
meanwhile found the problem and fix it
but that will only work from this
version onwards so just keep in mind
that any issue that will appear while we
haven't released a new version it's
probably really dead however I'm gonna
release a a new version as soon as I
finished finished grooming my my final
poll request of the on the pinning
settings
and after that we just ask feedback
again for the users just check if
everything is updating properly but I
really think that once we have the time
after pinning services we should really
dedicate some time into update because I
think this is the kind of features that
are bugs in this case that we can lose
users due to if they get really mad
about the dating issues they will just
stop updating or stop using the app so I
think this should be like a be zero
after we finish cleaning just just my
two cents yeah definitely and just to
provide additional context we had a
bunch of different issues with the
bundling tool we are using right now we
are using electron builder which is like
it's yours but it's like not this
standard thing it's something people use
we if they want to support more than the
usual suspects and it's a long list of
issues we had over the years and moving
away from that whole plus probably
moving away from github releases and
leveraging ipfs for of distributing
storing and checking for updates would
be would be that because like if we if
we change this we should change to
something that's leverages ipfs like as
much as possible yeah
for that this specific bug I think the
one you described was mostly the Windows
one which was a problem for users who
installed aquifers desktop globally as
an admin in like globally for all users
on the system and I think there's a bug
in electron builder where if you in
start-up that way and there's an update
the update operation will uninstall the
app so that's that's interesting way of
breaking Europe the good thing is like
if you
insta lead I think the data is still
there
but it was like annoying to Windows
users especially people seem to install
stuff globally for some reason yeah I
tried I tried it like five times and I
couldn't replicate it and maybe it's
because I only have one user and maybe
they have more than one user that's why
they choose that option and I may be
trying to get like and maybe I'll just
create a guest account try it afterward
I'm a little bit like skeptical when it
comes to trying to reproduce and I think
on Windows platform now like it was
easier when you had like Windows 7
Windows something now you got Windows 10
but there are like dozens of Windows
stands and they change random stuff
between them and it's now it's even
ridiculous - it's hard to tell which
build user was running so that's like a
struggle and electron builder is not
helping I agree after paying services we
probably should pump that in priority
alright the next one is ipfs pinning on
settings page yeah so let me just share
my screen so can you see my screen here
so this is the settings or just to
quickly show you what's going on so I
kind of want to fix some accessibility
issues with the table for some reason
after I did the accessibility fixes the
table now as some weird focus stuff that
shouldn't be happening why for some
reason I need to discuss if I click on
this row should I also open the three
icons menu over here no it shouldn't be
a thing okay nice so after that so these
sections aren't doing anything right now
but they they are kind of coded that way
the
the possibility of weather action but so
far the only thing that we can do is at
the service once we have the repinning
API providing the list we can also have
some URLs over here or some custom
actions to add opinion services in a
pinning service it instantly but for now
we can add a custom one I'm just
finishing the UI liming everything and
spacing and whatnot but we can just add
a custom painting services over here and
we also need a link for the learn how
right now we just linked into the home
page
that'll go for that I'll go to Docs we
haven't written yet but I can figure out
what the URL will be we can at least put
that in there yeah but so far so that's
a bit slow the progress I'm getting but
almost there and then yeah I think we
can focus on on other parts of pinning
services like integrating on files page
in water that's it yeah some some
updates on like the Settings aspect of
pinning services is that last time I
talked with a Dean we recognized the
problem of storing API secrets in IPS
notes config and we already have a
convention of not returning private keys
when you read config over API slash
v-0 convict endpoint effectively the
screens the settings screen are in web
UI will be reading pinning services map
from the config and the way it will work
it will be possible to write the secret
but it won't be possible to read it from
API so web UI will be effectively
always like overriding the key but it
won't be possible to lick the key in
case there's a problem I'm still not
sure about details in elected fields
that should land in a config namely the
like the icon like right now we got just
end point and the secret I'm not sure if
the icon should be in that map namely
because if you add a custom one I think
that's separate lecture but that's the
perfect bag that it's like a tiny thing
that everyone will have an opinion yeah
thing is if we want that the providers
to like just to a poll request and add
their own configuration there with with
us just testing and making sure
everything's ok I'll get to go they
should be the ones providing the icon as
well right
yeah so I was thinking about he was even
thinking about adding like an info
endpoint we're pinning service could
provides all those additional things
like link to their own dogs link to
their like user onboarding web like pop
on their website and see ID of their
logo but that's yeah I'm not sure if we
want to persist all of the ads in in the
API that's like a separate separate
discussion so a question if we if we
want the providers to give us a CID we
need to make sure that CID is persisted
on the public gateway right yeah like we
assume that CID will be fairly popular
and there should not be problem we're
fetching okay I was thinking about
making a tool that just makes those kind
of requests for the public gateway just
upload a file
just that was abuse our gateways it's a
secret we I think I think it's fine we
will probably be ready for cleaning
services from the land I will quickly
give a quick highlights of staff that
landed right so I have this thing when I
share a screen I'm not able to hide his
own interface and it's I think it's on
Linux problem not seeing it oh no no
it's it's yeah we just we just can't we
can't see it but it's it's bound to be
over the thing you want to click on yeah
yes because people don't see my struggle
all right
I think new active has desktop landed
with the out update fix that
Rafael mentioned worth mentioning oh and
by the way I think there's a more recent
version of web UI here I think we
shipped 2.10 yeah so that's like a
secret fit easter egg I can literally
and we shipped IPS companion to the
stable Channel it's cool for two reasons
one it got approved by Google within two
days and the second one and the second
one is that it's got a huge revamp
Jessica redid the entire main menu and
now it's it does not take your entire
screen and it shows you much more
personally I like those copy elements
which now
show you what you will be copying and we
save a bunch of stuff in size a bunch of
language tweaks in both main menu and
preferences pages choose two things of
note here one I believe this actually
represents us ripping out every
extraneous use of the phrase web UI
aside from one space on the Preferences
page where it actually makes sense the
downloaded leading-edge web UI and then
we qualify what that means so after
three years I think we were finally able
to close that issue about not referring
to web UI as a thing also this opens up
space for we have a long-standing
contributor PR where for DNS linked
sites you get two additional copy links
for the immutable versions of links and
I believe this should open up enough
vertical space to actually get that into
production and you can also that landed
in the previous release but not people
might not know you can click on the cube
now and if we give you the welcome page
we also don't say whether you are here
which is cool so that's available in for
Chrome and Firefox interesting fact
Google changed something in the way they
calculate stats we had over 30 k of
users and now we have just seven and
it's still unclear why the rapid
decrease of users I checked it I've been
looking at it for the past weeks and we
are growing around like between 50 and
100 of new users each week after this
drop not sure why maybe Google fighting
with BOTS maybe we got
some fake users which pretend to use
multiple extensions no idea that's not
the only problem people had with it's
not just us having this problem
multiple people raised that issue on
forums so yeah just thought I mentioned
that in case people wonder why 20k of
users and installed IP first companion I
think we also landed on this case study
I am not sure if we talked about this on
this call but I think Jessica if you
could like briefly mention it yeah I can
I can show it to you on my screen but
really just click the link it goes
straight to the docs
we are commissioning a series of what
I'm calling like 10,000 foot view case
studies that don't get so deep into the
technical weeds that are really geared
towards showing somebody who's
interested in whether they want oh thank
you whether they want to use ipfs you
know how that might fit into their
overall tech stack or just their their
overall metaphors for their project as a
whole so really focused on the value
that ipfs and and only ipfs was able to
provide to audience like I said this is
gonna be a series of these they will
live canonically in the docs but we'll
keep them in our pocket to use
particularly the social media and any
future revamps of the ipfs dot IO site
next on tap
I believe our open Bazaar fleek and IO
Tex I feel that will be super useful
resource for people it's often takes a
bunch of time for giving people examples
of what they could build with ipfs and
having like actual products telling in
their own words how they leverage ideas
is much better way of this was I mean
this was the number one area when we
were doing surveys of missing bits of
documentation where not only was there
need but we were providing absolutely
nothing
so here we go yeah
now we provide something cool I think
we've run a true entire agenda and other
topics I I forgot to mention one single
idly had a concerns about the testing of
the changes to J's ipfs for the
multi-part stuff
I added some tests to try to address it
I wrote a comment it would be good to
hear your thoughts after that whether
they address it or do we need to find a
better solution like context here is my
concern was we are improving this
performance of uploading files over HTTP
API but the risk is that at some point
in the future maybe this performance
gain may be lost - to refactor or
something so having some sort of
regression test is useful I probably
won't look at it today but I'll try to
talk sometime this week yeah thank you
folks I think we will end this sooner
I'll stop recording now see you in two
weeks